
# Support Vector Machines with the Hard-Margin Loss: Optimal Training via Combinatorial Benders' Cuts

This is the repository for [Support Vector Machines with the Hard-Margin Loss: Optimal Training via Combinatorial Benders' Cuts]().


## Reported results

The interested reader can check all results of the paper in ***Experiments/Reported-results.xlsx***.


## Requirements

The source-code is working on MacOS 11.6 using ***Clang++ 11.x.x*** and Ubuntu 20.x using ***C++ 9.x.x***. 
For both systems, ***CPLEX_Studio1210*** is used in the experiments and already set in the **Makefile**. 
We believe that recent CPLEX versions should work fine too.

#### Compiling on Ubuntu
Using terminal, you just need to enter **Program/** folder and run:
`make`

To make a simple test in the code, we created a makefile target named 'test'.
Using terminal, run `make test`. The expected result concerns three stages: clean object files, compile the code, and run a test case. If the last line of the output contains the solution-cost and some related values, the generated executable is fine.

#### Compiling on MacOSX
For running on MacOSX, you must include myOS parameter as argument in the makefile, so it can compile the code using the correct CPLEX root folder. Check it below:
`make myOS=MacOSX`

To make a simple test in the code, we created a makefile target named 'test'.
Using terminal, run `make test myOS=MacOSX`. The expected result concerns three stages: clean object files, compile the code, and running an test case. If the last line of the output contains the solution-cost and some other values, the executable is fine.




#### Using different CPLEX versions in the Makefile
In case you have a different version than CPLEX_Studio1210, you may execute
`make CPLEXVERSION=CPLEX_Studio@@@` where ***@@@*** refers to the suffix of 'CPLEX_Studio' in the folder name. As an example, **CPLEX_Studio201** is the folder name for CPLEX 20.10, requiring `make CPLEXVERSION=CPLEX_Studio201` to correctly compile the code.
Our makefile is a friendly text file, which does not require much effort in adapting it to any CPLEX_Studio version. 

## Running the algorithm

```
Usage example:
./svm-nonconvex datasetPath -instanceFormat {} -timeProportionCBCuts ${} -timeProportionSampling {} -maxCBCuts {} -problem {} -pen {} -timeBudget {} -seed {}

Available options:
-instanceFormat				Input format to read instances (only 2);
-timeProportionCBCuts  		Proportion of time used to generate CB cuts (Step #1);
-timeProportionSampling 	Proportion of time related to timeProportionCBCuts to generate CB cuts in the sampling phase;
-maxCBCuts 					Bounds the number of CB cuts to generate. (-1 for limitless);
-problem 					Set the problem type for solving. (default HARD_IP SVM with hard-margin loss). Available options {FIRST_CB_THEN_HARD_IP SVM with hard-margin loss only CB cuts from the whole model,SAMPLING_CB_HARD_IP = SVM with hard-margin loss with CB from whole model and sampling, HARD_IP = SVM with hard-margin loss, SOFT_HL = SVM with hinge loss,HARD = classic SVM (only feasible if data is linearly separable)};
-pen 						Penalty factor in the objective function, i.e., C value (default 1.0).
-timeBudget 				Maximum of running time (-1 for limitless)
-seed 						Input seed for the pseudorandom number generator (default 1) used in sampling.
-nbThreads					Number of threads for CPLEX (default 1).
-samplingSize				Size of each sampling iteration. (default is min(50,floor(n/2)))
-nbSamplingIterations		Number of iterations for sampling phase. (default is n)
-locallyValidImpliedBounds  Value for locally Valid Implied Bounds parameter in CPLEX (default 3)
-normalizeData 				If 1, the data values are normalized using (value - avg)/std. ''. If 2, these values are normalized using max-min.
```

All instances used in this work were generated by Brooks [1]. 

## Executing

All commands below concern the command line.

#### A simple example:
Within ***Experiments/*** folder, run one of the following.

Using Ubuntu, run `make test`.

Using MacOSX, run `make test myOS=MacOSX`.

#### Basic script:

Check `basic.sh` within ***Experiments/*** folder for a working example on all instances using SAMPLING_CB_HARD_IP and HARD_IP with 600 seconds (=10 minutes) of time limit.


#### Reproducing all experiments of the paper:

Run `paper.sh` within ***Experiments/*** folder for the script to reproduce all experiments of the paper.

## References

[1]  J.P. Brooks, Support vector machines with the ramp loss and the hard margin loss, Oper. Res. 59 (2011) 467–479. https://doi.org/10.1287/opre.1100.0854.
